We now understand a little bit more about what segmentation and
clustering are and why we might want to do this kind of analysis.
Let's start looking into the details of what you
need to do to perform a cluster analysis.
For this course, we'll use a hands on business case that will let you explore and
practice the concepts typically found in a clustering segmentation process.
The business problem is that a retail company sells outdoor furniture,
recreational equipment, and garden supplies in all of its stores.
The company has over 2,000 stores across the continental United States and wants to
ensure that it places the various product items in the stores at the appropriate time,
considering the weather seasons.
As we've mentioned in our Lowe's example earlier in this lesson,
this business wants to place
barbecue grills in their stores where the consumers will be interested in
barbecuing and want to place the garden items in
their stores when people will be interested in planting those items.
In other words, they don't want to put grills on sale in
areas when it's snowing and no one is barbecuing,
nor do they want to ship daisies when snow is on the ground either.
Now, they could create individual seasonality plans for each of the 2,000 plus stores,
but it would cost way too much to put this into effect.
They have asked us to create segments that will
allow them to create plans for those segments,
that can then be applied to each store in each segment.
This should give them maximum operating efficiency and yet
provide for the best scenarios to have maximum revenues.